---
layout: post
title: "Evaluating the OpenSSF Scorecard Project"
date: 2025-07-07
---

In lab this week, we investigated the [OpenSSF Scorecard](https://github.com/ossf/scorecard) project—a tool designed to assess the security posture of open-source GitHub repositories. The Scorecard runs a series of automated checks and generates a score based on best security practices such as branch protection, code review, dependency management, and fuzzing. The goal is to help users and contributors quickly understand how secure and trustworthy a project is.

The project is maintained by the Open Source Security Foundation (OpenSSF) and has over 80 contributors. However, the most recent activity appears to come from a small, consistent group of core maintainers. Despite being relatively small-scale, the project is active, with frequent commits, issue discussions, and pull requests.

To get involved with Scorecard, a good starting point would be the `README.md` and `CONTRIBUTING.md` files in the repository. These documents provide clear setup instructions and contribution guidelines. The documentation also includes usage examples and installation details, which are helpful for understanding how the tool works and how to run it locally.

Bugs and feature requests are tracked using GitHub Issues. We noticed that while there are several open issues, many of them are actively being addressed or have recent updates. Issues are labeled clearly, and some are marked as “good first issue,” making it easier for newcomers to contribute.

Installing Scorecard seems relatively simple for anyone familiar with the command line. It requires Go and Docker, and with those tools installed, the setup process should take around 20–30 minutes. The instructions are well-written and easy to follow.

Communication among developers appears to happen primarily through GitHub itself, via issue comments, pull request discussions, and community engagement on the repository. While there may be other channels like Slack or mailing lists, they aren’t publicly listed in the repository.

One of the most interesting takeaways from this exercise was learning how tools like Scorecard automate the process of evaluating software security. It highlights how security isn’t just about code—it’s also a
